Guide - Examples with the module "Auflistung" (#611)
contao/docs: docs/manual/guides/module-listing.en.md

---
title: "Module Listing"
description: "Create a list of members with a Map via the module Listing"
aliases:
  - /en/guides/module-listing/
weight: 90
tags: 
  - "Theme"
  - "Template"    
---

We would like to realise a list of members together with a map display via the service provider 
[OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.de/) for a fictitious club site. For this we need corresponding 
Contao [members](/en/user-management/members/) who can be assigned to one or more Contao 
[member groups](/en/user-management/members/) (e.g. »tournament riders« or »board«).

These details are stored in the database table `tl_member` and can then be queried via the module of the »Type« 
[listing](/en/layout/module-management/applications/).

{{% notice info %}}
For list display of existing members you could also install the extension 
[contao-memberlist](https://extensions.contao.org/?q=memberlkist&pages=1&p=friends-of-contao%2Fcontao-memberlist). By 
using the module »Listing« we can implement this without any extension.
{{% /notice %}}

## Module type »Listing«

> The Contao frontend module of the »type« [listing](/en/layout/module-management/applications/) is underestimated. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Contao frontend module of the »type« [listing](/en/layout/module-management/applications/) is mostly underestimated. 
```

    <?= $this->no_results ?>
  <?php else: ?>
	  <?php foreach ($this->tbody as $class => $row): ?>
	    <div class="block memberitem <?= $class ?>"><p>
	  	  <a href="mailto:<?= $row['email']['raw'] ?>">
	  	  <?= $row['firstname']['content'] ?> <?= $row['lastname']['content'] ?></a>
		  
          <span><?= $row['street']['content'] ?> - 
		  <?= $row['postal']['content'] ?> <?= $row['city']['content'] ?></span>
		</p></div>
      <?php endforeach; ?>
  <?php endif; ?>

  <?= $this->pagination ?>
</div>
```

{{% notice note %}}
For simplicity's sake, we have entered rudimentary CSS information here directly in the template. Alternatively, 
you could also store them as [CSS assets](/en/layout/templates/template-assets/).
{{% /notice %}}

## New field for geo-coordinates

For the map display, we require the corresponding geo-coordinates of the address in the form of latitude and longitude 
for each member. If you do not already have them, create a new folder »contao/dca« in your Contao main directory 
with a file »tl_member.php«:

```php
// contao/dca/tl_member.php

use Contao\CoreBundle\DataContainer\PaletteManipulator;

$GLOBALS['TL_DCA']['tl_member']['fields']['myGeoData'] = [

>     'label'       => ['Koordinaten der Adresse', 'Breiten- und Längengrad mit Komma getrennt.'],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    'label'       => ['Coordinates of the address', 'Latitude and longitude separated by commas.'],
```

    'inputType'   => 'text', 
    'eval'        => ['tl_class' => 'w50'],
    'sql'         => ['type' => 'string', 'length' => 255, 'notnull' => false],
];

PaletteManipulator::create()

>     ->addLegend('Geo-Koordinaten', 'address_legend', PaletteManipulator::POSITION_AFTER)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ->addLegend('Geo-Coordinates', 'address_legend', PaletteManipulator::POSITION_AFTER)
```

>     ->addField('myGeoData', 'Geo-Koordinaten', PaletteManipulator::POSITION_APPEND)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ->addField('myGeoData', 'Geo-Coordinates', PaletteManipulator::POSITION_APPEND)
```

[Google Maps](https://www.google.com/maps/preview). For our example, the one-time determination and manual entry of the 
coordinates is reasonable for the new admission of a member. If you have a lot of data, you could use one of the numerous 
Contao [extensions](https://extensions.contao.org/?q=map&pages=1) to automatically determine the coordinates.

Another alternative is the extension [netzmacht/contao-leaflet-geocode-widget](https://extensions.contao.org/?q=netzmacht&pages=1&p=netzmacht%2Fcontao-leaflet-geocode-widget).

### Extension »netzmacht/contao-leaflet-geocode-widget«

The extension provides two backend [widgets](https://docs.contao.org/dev/framework/widgets/) for geocoding of addresses 
including the perimeter. Please see the [GitHub](https://github.com/netzmacht/contao-leaflet-geocode-widget) page for 
integration instructions. After [installing](/en/installation/install-extensions/) the extension you can customize 
»contao/dca/tl_member.php« as follows:

```php
// contao/dca/tl_member.php

use Contao\CoreBundle\DataContainer\PaletteManipulator;

$GLOBALS['TL_DCA']['tl_member']['fields']['myGeoData'] = [

>     'label'       => ['Koordinaten der Adresse', 'Breiten- und Längengrad mit Komma getrennt.'],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    'label'       => ['Coordinates of the address', 'Latitude and longitude separated by commas.'],
```

    'inputType'   => 'leaflet_geocode', 
    'eval'        => ['tl_class' => 'w50'],
    'sql'         => ['type' => 'string', 'length' => 255, 'notnull' => false],
];

PaletteManipulator::create()

>     ->addLegend('Geo-Koordinaten', 'address_legend', PaletteManipulator::POSITION_AFTER)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ->addLegend('Geo-Coordinates', 'address_legend', PaletteManipulator::POSITION_AFTER)
```

>     ->addField('myGeoData', 'Geo-Koordinaten', PaletteManipulator::POSITION_APPEND)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ->addField('myGeoData', 'Geo-Coordinates', PaletteManipulator::POSITION_APPEND)
```

	
	const zoomDefault = 12;
	const zoomMin = 1;
	const zoomMax = 18;

	var myMarkerIcon = new L.icon({
	  iconUrl: myMarkerIconURL,
	  iconSize:     [25, 41],
	  iconAnchor:   [12, 41],
	  popupAnchor:  [0, -30]
	});

	var memberGroup = new L.featureGroup();
	
	for (var i = 0; i < arrMemberData.length; i++) {
		var current = arrMemberData[i];
		memberGroup.addLayer(L.marker(current.LatLong).bindPopup(current.markerPopupContent));
	}

	var mapProvider =
	new L.tileLayer('https://{s}.tile.openstreetmap.de/tiles/osmde/{z}/{x}/{y}.png', {
	  attribution: '&copy;<a href="https://www.openstreetmap.org/copyright">OpenStreetMap</a> contributors'
	});

	var map = new L.Map(mapCssId, {
	  minZoom: zoomMin,
	  maxZoom: zoomMax,
	  scrollWheelZoom: false,
	  fadeAnimation: false,
	  layers: [mapProvider, memberGroup]
	});

	var bounds = L.latLngBounds(memberGroup.getBounds());
	map.fitBounds(bounds, {padding: [10, 10]});
    
	map.on("resize", function(e){ 
     map.fitBounds(bounds, {padding: [10, 10]}); 
   });
}
```

You have to adjust the directory information on the marker symbol (see: »myMarkerIconURL«) accordingly. Via `mapCssId` 

> you define the CSS-ID for the HTML-container. The JavaScript function expects as argument an array with the corresponding 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you define the CSS ID for the HTML container. The JavaScript function expects as argument an array with the corresponding 
```

information. This information is assigned to a group `memberGroup`, together with `OpenStreeMap` as map provider, for 
the purpose of displaying the map. Copy these files into a public directory of your Contao installation below »files«.

{{% notice note %}}
You still need to enable jQuery in the [page layout](/en/layout/theme-manager/manage-page-layouts/) of your theme. The 

> example refers to the standard leaflet marker icon »images/marker-icon.png«. If you want to use a different, own symbol 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example refers to the standard leaflet marker icon »images/marker-icon.png«. If you want to use a different, individual symbol 
```

<?php if ($this->headline): ?>
	<<?= $this->hl ?>><?= $this->headline ?></<?= $this->hl ?>>
<?php endif; ?>

<?php if ($this->searchable && $this->for && empty($this->tbody)): ?>
	<?= $this->no_results ?>
<?php else: ?>
	<div id="MYMEMBERMAP" class="block" style="height:40vh"></div>

	<?php foreach ($this->tbody as $class => $row): ?>
		<div class="block memberitem <?= $class ?>"><p>
		  <a href="mailto:<?= $row['email']['raw'] ?>">
		  <?= $row['firstname']['content'] ?> <?= $row['lastname']['content'] ?></a>
		  <span><?= $row['street']['content'] ?> - 
		  <?= $row['postal']['content'] ?> <?= $row['city']['content'] ?></span>
		</p></div>

		<? $tmpMemberMapData .= sprintf("{'markerPopupContent': '%s',  'LatLong': [%s]},", 
			$row['firstname']['content'].' '.$row['lastname']['content'], 
			$row['myGeoData']['content']);
		?>
	<?php endforeach; ?>
<?php endif; ?>

<script> 
	var arrMemberMapData = [<?= $tmpMemberMapData ?>];

	(function($){
		$(document).ready(function(){ createMemberMap(arrMemberMapData); });
	})(jQuery);
</script>  

<?= $this->pagination ?>
</div>
```

> First we reference the required CSS and JS files (see also: [CSS- AND JAVASCRIPT-ASSETS](/en/layout/templates/template-assets/)). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we reference the required CSS and JS files (see also: [CSS and JavaScript assets](/en/layout/templates/template-assets/)). 
```

> Furthermore we define a HTML container with the CSS-ID `MYMEMBERMAP` for map display. In the PHP loop we collect the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore we define a HTML container with the CSS ID `MYMEMBERMAP` for map display. In the PHP loop we collect the 
```

> required coordinates via `tmpMemberMapData` and generate a JavaScript array zewcks call of our function `createMemberMap(arrMemberMapData)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
required coordinates via `tmpMemberMapData` and generate a JavaScript array in order to call our function `createMemberMap(arrMemberMapData)`.
```

    			var info = 
    			'<div class="static-info"><div>Ja, ich möchte Karten von OpenStreetMap angezeigt bekommen.<br>' +
    			'Weitere Informationen finden Sie in unseren Datenschutzhinweisen.</div>' +
    			'<div class="js-static-info__close">Karte einblenden</div></div>';
    			$('#MYMEMBERMAP').prepend(info);
			} else {
  				$('#MYMEMBERMAP').removeClass('static');
  				createMemberMap(arrMemberMapData);
			}
		}

		$('.js-static-info__close').click(function(){
    		$(this).parents('.static-info').remove();
    		$('#MYMEMBERMAP').removeClass('static');

    		createMemberMap(arrMemberMapData);
    		localStorage.setItem('MapHide', 'true');
		});
	});
})(jQuery);
</script>
```

As long as there is no confirmation from the user, our »static« alternative is displayed. Otherwise the map will be 
created and displayed. Instead of a [cookie](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cookie) we use 
the [localStorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage) functionality of the 
browser (you could also use the [sessionStorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/de/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage)).

### Useful leaflet plugins

> The leaflet framework can be extended with [plug-ins](https://leafletjs.com/plugins.html). Here is a small selection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The leaflet framework can be extended with [plugins](https://leafletjs.com/plugins.html). Here is a small selection:
```

- [Leaflet.fullscreen](https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.fullscreen): Expands the map with a fullscreen view.

> - [leaflet-grayscale](https://github.com/Zverik/leaflet-grayscale): Some map providers have SW/grayscale tiles. With 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Leaflet.TileLayer.Grayscale](https://github.com/Zverik/leaflet-grayscale): Some map providers have SW/grayscale tiles. With 
```

> this PlugIn you can display bel. maps in greyscale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this Plugin you can display bel. maps in greyscale.
```
